# Excel-Clothing-Store-Analysis
## Project Information
Employed as Data Analysts for Modern Traditional Clothing Store in India, who sell womens and mens clothing through various online channels such as Myntra, Ajio and Amazon. Business executives of Modern Traditional Clothing have requested us to create an annual sales report, with the purpose of understanding their customer base and how to grow their sales in 2023. the business is performing, to help them with business decisions. The executives have advised that they currently don't have any dashboards, and haven't exactly specified what they would like us to deliver. No specific guidance has been provided on how to approach the task, what metrics they would like to see or any examples they may have which they wish to recreate. As analysts, it is upto use to understand the business, the business situation, what the stakeholders will need to see and how to best showcase this keeping in mind the target audience. 

We have been given the dataset in the form of an excel file (link below). We will begin with data cleaning, then move onto processing, analysis and finally dashboard creation.

## Key points of this project
- Pie charts have been used, generally pie charts are frowned upon in data analysis, but since no thin slices we can do.
- Understand the audience, do they have vision isuses? Colorblindness? Red and green color blindness is the most common.

## Data Checking
This can be viewed as the analysis before the analysis. We have been given data but we have to make sure the data is appropriate for our task, will the data help us provide the executives with an understanding of their customer base and assist them with business decisions to grow their sales in 2023? Let's have a look. 
We can see columns providing demographic data such as gender and age. We also have a ship city column providing geographic information. We also have columns which provide us information on the customer purchases such as what channel they're using to purchase, what category their purchasing from, what sizes, the quantities and the amount of each item. There are also ID columns such as customer ID and order ID, as well as an index, these can be viewed as keys, which are unique identifiers assigned to a particular piece of information such as customers or orders. In this dataset an index column provides a unique identifier for each row, where each row denotes the whole of a single order or a part of an order. 
From this data, we can already see that we have the information to help us understand the stores customer base. From the data, we'll be able to gain insights such as, which gender and age group purchased/spent the most, what item did they purchase the most, which category they purchased the most from, which platform did they use the most to make these purchase, where they are located etc. Having demographic, geographic, behavioural and psychographic data can help in customer profiling and ultimately gain a deeper understanding of the customer. This information can then be used to drive business decisions such as which segment of the customer base to market to, which products should be stocked more, which sales channels need to be worked on/improved etc. We'll also be able to see which product and category overall were the most popular and made the most revenue, which city purchased/spent the most, which sales platform was the most popular etc. 
The data looks like it will be able to help us with the business task. If we're not able to get certain insights, we will note these down and mention these to the executives. Lets move onto data cleaning to make sure the data is in good shape before analysis.

## Data Cleaning

